+++
title = "A Hierarchical Approach to Energy Management in Data Centers"

# Date first published.
date = "2010-12-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Luca Parolini",
           "Emanuele Garone",
           "Bruno Sinopoli",
           "Bruce H. Krogh"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "49th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Atlanta, USA"
publication_short = "In *CDC*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper concerns the management of energy in data centers using a cyber-physical model that supports the coordinated control of both computational and thermal (cooling) resources. On the basis of the structure of the proposed model and practical issues related to the data center layout and distribution of information, we propose a hierarchical optimization scheme in which the higher level chooses goals for regulation at the lower level. Linear programming is applied to solve sequences of one-step look-ahead problems at both the top level and in the lower-level controllers to solve. The approach is illustrated with simulation results."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5718148/"
url_preprint = "/pdf/PGSK_CDC_2010.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption 😄"

+++
