+++
title = "Dynamic power allocation in server farms: A Real Time Optimization approach"

# Date first published.
date = "2010-12-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Mohammadreza Aghajani",
           "Luca Parolini",
           "Bruno Sinopoli"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "49th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Atlanta, USA"
publication_short = "In *CDC*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper concerns the power minimization problem in server farms. The power minimization problem over dynamic power allocation schemes is formally defined and formulated as an optimization problem. It is shown that finding the optimal solution for this optimization problem is not feasible. Inspired by control theory, a well-established method to optimize a cost function over the constraints imposed by the evolution of a dynamical system, called Real-Time Optimization (RTO), is invoked to find a sub-optimal solution for the power minimization problem. The obtained algorithm is simulated and compared with the state-of-the-art optimal static power allocation solution. A considerable improvement in energy consumption is attained for the same quality of service (QoS) level, when dynamic power allocation is used."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "/pdf/APS_CDC_2010.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption 😄"

+++
