+++
title = "Model Predictive Control of Data Centers in the Smart Grid Scenario"

# Date first published.
date = "2011-08-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Luca Parolini", "Bruno Sinopoli", "Bruce H. Krogh"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter  
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "18th World Congress of the International Federation of Automatic Control (IFAC)"
publication_short = "In *IFAC*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper discusses the challenges and the possibilities offered by controlling a data center as a node of the smart-grid. Communication between the grid and a data center takes the form of a time-varying and power-consumption-dependent electricity price. A cyber-physical approach is considered. The computational and the physical characteristics of a data center, as well as the interactions between the two aspects, are explicitly represented. Simulation results show that the proposed control approach can lead to larger income for data center operators than other approaches that do not consider the interactions between the cyber and the physical subsystems."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = "/pdf/ifac2011.pdf"
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "/pdf/IFAC_2011_slides.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption 😄"

+++
